JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
Gwen Ifill is away.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
Hillary Clinton targets reliably
red Arizona,
while Donald Trump focuses on
victory in Florida.
With only six days left, a look
at how control
of the Senate will affect the
next president.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Wednesday:
life in Turkey after the failed
coup.
Massive purges of public
officials, and a
growing list of detained
journalists reveal
a more controlling government.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And surviving
under the sea
-- how scientists are using
robots to learn
the mysteries of early oceanic
life.
STEVEN MORGAN, University of
California, Davis:
This is new information that
hasn't really
existed up until now.
So, we're sort of cracking the
black box of
larval behavior.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Six days to go,
and the candidates
are trying toes navigate a
presidential election
map that's still shifting.
That had Donald Trump trying
today to nail
down one must-win state, while
Hillary Clinton
tries to deny him another.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
My second home, you know that.
I'm here all the time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That was Donald
Trump today
back in vote-rich Florida, a
state he's visited
often in recent weeks.
Today, in Miami, he sounded
newly confident.
DONALD TRUMP: And the polls have
just come
up.
We're way up in Florida.
I shouldn't say that, because I
want you to
go vote.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: We are going to
pretend we're
down.
We're down.
Pretend, right?
We will pretend we're down.
No, we got to win, we got to win
big.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The race in
Florida is, in
fact, neck-and-neck, and Hillary
Clinton started
off her day less than an hour's
drive away,
visiting an early polling site
in Fort Lauderdale.
Clinton, afterward, flew west to
campaign
in Nevada.
And, tonight, she's in Arizona,
in past years
a Republican stronghold.
Her running mate, Tim Kaine, and
his wife,
Anne Holton, are on the
hustings, too, of
course, as are President Obama
and Vice President
Biden, former President Bill
Clinton and daughter
Chelsea, plus Senators Bernie
Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren.
They're fanning out to election
battlegrounds
from Ohio to Nevada.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
If Hillary wins North Carolina,
she wins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The most
prominent surrogate
of them all spent his time
campaigning for
Clinton in Chapel Hill, North
Carolina.
BARACK OBAMA: When I said the
fate of the
republic rests on you, I wasn't
joking.
Young people here, it's not
often that you
know your voice will have an
impact.
Don't let it slip away.
Don't give away your power.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Earlier, on the
social media
platform Now This News, the
president called
Hillary Clinton's use of a
private e-mail
server as secretary of state an
honest mistake.
He also addressed the FBI's
review of newly
discovered e-mails.
He didn't directly criticize
director James
Comey, but he did say:
BARACK OBAMA: I do think that
there is a norm
that, you know, when there are
investigations,
we don't operate on innuendo, we
don't operate
on incomplete information, we
on leaks.
We operate based on concrete
decisions that
are made.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, Donald
Trump is
devoting his whole day to
Florida, while his
surrogates spread across the
electoral map
as well, running mate Mike
Pence, Trump's
children, Donald Jr., Ivanka,
Tiffany and
Eric with his wife, Lara, former
New York
Mayor Rudy Giuliani, and former
House Speaker
Newt Gingrich.
Pence was dispatched to Arizona,
ahead of
Clinton's visit there tonight,
trying to keep
the state in the Republican
column, where
it's been 11 of the last 12
presidential election
years.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the day's
other news,
investigators around Des Moines,
Iowa, are
looking for a motive in the
ambush killings
of two policemen early today.
The 46-year-old suspect, Scott
Michael Greene,
was arrested hours later.
Authorities say both officers
were sitting
in their police cars when they
were shot to
death.
The killings happened less than
two miles
apart.
SGT.
PAUL PARIZEK, Des Moines Police
Department:
What we can tell by looking at
the scene is
that it doesn't appear that
either officer
had an opportunity to interact
with the suspect.
It doesn't look like there was
an exchange
of conversation.
It doesn't look like there was
an opportunity
-- there definitely wasn't an
opportunity
for these officers to defend
themselves and
respond to the attack.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Police say
they believe
the gunman acted alone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: South Africa's
President Jacob
Zuma faced increasing public
pressure to step
down today.
A state watchdog report found
signs of corruption
at top levels of the government.
The report came out after Zuma
abandoned efforts
to block it.
He also faced thousands of
protesters in the
streets of Pretoria demanding he
resign.
They pointed to a series of
scandals, including
spending millions in state funds
on Zuma's
rural home.
MAN: He is under siege now even
from his own
quarters.
The ANC is speaking out loud
against him.
And society, I think, has come
to realize
that we have come to the end of
the road for
him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The corruption
report also
calls for a judicial inquiry
into new allegations
that Zuma engaged in
influence-peddling.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Back in this
country, the
Federal Reserve finished its
latest meeting
with no change in short-term
interest rates.
Instead, policy-makers said they
want to see
further gains in the job market
and economic
activity.
They hinted a rate hike could
come at their
next meeting in December.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On Wall Street
today, election
jitters and a drop in oil prices
sent stocks
lower again.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 77 points
to close at 17959.
The Nasdaq fell 48, and the S&P
500 gave up
13.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It's do-or-die
tonight for
the Chicago Cubs and the
Cleveland Indians
in game seven of the World
Series.
Fans in both cities are hoping
their teams
put an end to decades of
waiting.
The Cubs haven't won a World
Series since
1908, and the Indians last
claimed a title
in 1948.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And there's a new
king in the
World Series of Poker.
Qui Nguyen won the tournament's
main event
early today in Las Vegas, after
nine hours
and 364 hands.
He's a native of Vietnam, who's
applied for
U.S. citizenship.
He says he plans to donate a
portion of his
$8 million in winnings to poor
families in
Vietnam and to the Wounded
Warrior Project.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Still to come
on the "NewsHour":
which presidential candidate
appeals most
to voters with disabilities;
from marijuana
to the death penalty, key ballot
issues in
next week's election; Turkey's
growing crackdown
on journalists; and much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: No matter who
wins next week's
presidential election, the party
that controls
the balance of power in the U.S.
House and
Senate will play a critical role
in determining
what gets done.
Important issues such as health
care, immigration,
trade and the makeup of the
federal courts
will all be affected.
We explore that now with Gerald
Seib, the
Washington bureau chief for The
Wall Street
Journal.
And Norman Ornstein, he's a
resident scholar
at the American Enterprise
Institute.
And we welcome both of you back
to the program.
So, Jerry, I'm going to start
with you.
There are, what, six or seven
Senate seats
that are literally up for grabs
right now.
Where do those races -- how do
they look like?
GERALD SEIB, Washington Bureau
Chief, The
Wall Street Journal: It's
interesting, because
a couple of weeks ago, the
Democrats got fairly
confident they were pulling away
and were
going to have the margin.
And then several of those races
have narrowed
down in the last couple of
weeks, sort of
like the presidential race, and
not by coincidence.
So if the Democrats can hang on
in Nevada,
where Harry Reid is retiring,
which is a little
iffy, and if they pick up a seat
in Illinois,
which seems likely, then they're
going to
have to find three or four seats
in Indiana,
Missouri, North Carolina, New
Hampshire, Pennsylvania
and Wisconsin.
In each of those states, the
Republicans trying
to hang on have done a little
better than
Donald Trump in those states,
which is why
Republicans have some hope that
they can hang
on.
To me, the most interesting one
in the last
few days has been Wisconsin,
which looked
as it was kind of moving away
from Ron Johnson,
the Republican incumbent.
Now it's tightening up
And all of a sudden, there's
money pouring
in from both parties into
Wisconsin.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We could see
changes.
But the point is, it's hanging
in the balance,
Norm.
We don't know.
NORMAN ORNSTEIN, Resident
Scholar, American
Enterprise Institute: It's
hanging in the
balance.
Democrats, if Hillary Clinton
wins the White
House, need four seats.
If they win four, it's a tied
Senate, and
the vice president casts the
tie-breaking
vote.
One caveat here is that if that
does happen
and there's a tie, the seat in
Virginia, which
would be vacated by the
then-vice president-elect
Tim Kaine, would be filled by
Governor Terry
McAuliffe.
It would be a Democrat, but only
for a year.
Then there's a special election.
And their majority would be in
jeopardy if
that happened.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we're off to
the races
again.
Well, we're here to talk about,
Jerry, about
what difference does it make
whether -- let's
just start out assuming Hillary
Clinton wins.
And we will talk in a minute
about Donald
Trump.
But if she wins and she doesn't
have a Senate
in -- her party with the
majority of Democrats,
what does that mean for what she
wants to
do?
GERALD SEIB: Well, you know, at
some level,
if somebody is in control of the
Senate by
51 to 49 seats, nobody is in
control of the
Senate.
You don't have a working
majority.
But it really does matter who
has the 51,
because you form the committees.
You name the committee chairmen.
You set the agenda.
You decide what gets considered
and what doesn't.
And however that mix works out,
I think one
of the things that has happened
in the last
few weeks that would be very
problematic for
a President Hillary Clinton is
that many of
these Republicans who do hang on
are going
to hang on because they have
gone to the voters
and said, vote for me because I
will be a
check on Hillary Clinton.
So, they're going to come to
town and their
mandate is going to be block the
new President
Clinton, not to work with the
Clinton.
And whatever the math is, I
think that's a
serious problem for her.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Norm, what
are the initiatives
that could go either way
depending on what
the Senate does if she is
president?
NORMAN ORNSTEIN: Well, let's
talk about the
most important element and why
winning the
Senate is absolutely crucial for
her for governing,
and that is the Senate's unique
power to advise
and consent on executive and
judicial nominations.
That's where having the 50 or 51
matters the
most, because if -- and getting
to Jerry's
point, if there's a Republican
majority, the
Republicans, from Mitch
McConnell, the leader,
on down have made clear that
they're not going
to confirm her judges.
And we have now had a number of
senators,
including Richard Burr in North
Carolina,
who is one of the ones who seats
is very much
in jeopardy, and Ted Cruz and
others say,
we won't confirm a Supreme Court
justice for
four years, for the entire term.
And they can keep a vote from
even taking
place.
Now, if the Democrats have the
majority, even
by a narrow margin, all the
judgeships below
the Supreme Court level can be
confirmed without
a filibuster with 50 votes, and
you could
change the rules, if need be, to
deal with
the Supreme Court.
Other than that, we're not going
to see much
legislation going through, Judy,
because even
if they have the Senate, they
don't have the
House.
But having that initiative,
having the ability
to frame an agenda, to bring up
an infrastructure
bill, which would be a top
priority, to bring
up a fix to the health care
plan, that's critical
if Hillary Clinton is going to
make any progress
through the normal process, the
regular order,
the legislative process.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Jerry, what
happens if
-- say the Democrats do eke out
a majority
in the Senate.
What is she then able to do, if
she's elected?
GERALD SEIB: Well, you know, I
think, as Norm
says, the first thing is, you
can get your
people in place to run the
government.
And that's not a small thing.
Before we even get to that
stage, one of the
things the Clinton team would
really like
is Merrick Garland, the Supreme
Court nominee,
to be confirmed in a lame-duck
session.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Who President
Obama nominated.
GERALD SEIB: Right, who
President Obama has
nominated, whose nomination is
sitting there.
They would like that out of the
way, so that
doesn't take all the oxygen out
of the room.
Then I think you can sort of
move on to at
least attempting a few basic
things.
And I think the number one thing
on the agenda
would be to try to get a bill
that spends
a bunch of money on
infrastructure in this
country that is actually a
bipartisan idea.
Donald Trump has proposed
spending more than
Hillary Clinton on
infrastructure.
Business likes it.
Republicans like it.
Republican governors out in the
country would
like that infrastructure money.
Maybe there's a path, even in
this partisan
environment, in this divided
world we're talking
about, to get something like
that done.
But I agree with Norm.
It's not going to be an
ambitious agenda,
at least at first.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Before we quickly
get to Donald
Trump, I just want to say, we're
not talking
so much about the House of
Representatives,
Norm, because we assume, given
what we're
seeing out there, that it's not
going to change
hands.
It will remain in Republican
control.
NORMAN ORNSTEIN: Yes.
Democrats need 30 seats to win
the House,
and that is a steeply, steeply
uphill climb.
Our expectation has been that
they will pick
up seats and they will reduce
the Republican
majority.
And it might go down into the 10
seats.
And that will, by the way, be an
enormous
challenge to Paul Ryan if he
decides to try
to continue as speaker, because
leadership
advocates, those who are loyal
to him, are
going to be reduced in number.
And with a smaller number, those
who are antithetical
to him, the Freedom Caucus from
his radical
right, are going to be stronger.
So, that's a challenge to him.
And it's a challenge to her if
she wins the
presidency.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, let's
quickly, Jerry,
talk about Donald Trump.
If he is elected president,
we're assuming
the Senate and the House stay
Republican,
just because it would what they
call maybe
a wave election.
What could he get done?
GERALD SEIB: Well, in that case,
the presumption
that Republicans in Congress
have is that
they're going to step forward
and fill a policy
gap.
The Trump presidential candidate
-- presidential
campaign has been policy-light.
I think they believe the
policy-making for
the Republican Party would move
down Pennsylvania
Avenue to the Capitol, to the
Congress.
And I'm not sure Donald Trump
will agree with
that.
I think the problem becomes,
there are key
issues, immigration and trade
being chief
among them, where the
Republicans in Congress
are not in agreement with Donald
Trump the
presidential candidate.
I don't know how they resolve
that.
NORMAN ORNSTEIN: So, we know
what -- the one
thing they can all agree on,
which is a great
big tax cut, particularly for
the rich.
Republicans in Congress and
Donald Trump have
that in common.
Almost nothing else will move
very far, in
part because Democrats will
filibuster almost
all of the initiatives.
The most interesting one,
though, Judy, is
the health care.
You know, there's talk of repeal
and replace.
They don't have a replace plan.
And if they all take the
majority, it is going
to be like the dog chasing the
bus who catches
it.
What do you do then?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, either way,
it looks
like there are a lot of question
marks about
what either one can get done.
Norman Ornstein, Jerry Seib, we
thank you
both.
GERALD SEIB: Thank you, Judy.
NORMAN ORNSTEIN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we turn now
to an often
overlooked political issue, the
well-being
of those with disabilities.
A bipartisan poll out today
showed that 51
percent of the American people
either have
a disability themselves or have
a family member
or a close friend with one.
Politics wasn't much of a
discussion at the
Breaux household in Fairfax,
Virginia, until:
SARA BREAUX, Virginia: I was
upstairs, and
he was in the basement with a
very trusted
therapist, and I hear him
screaming.
I came down and I was like,
what?
And I look, and Trump is on the
television,
and he has this guttural scream.
And I grabbed the boards and I
said, what
is going on?
And that's when he said, seeing
this actually
gives -- makes my stomach hurt.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He is Sara's son,
Ben Breaux,
a 16-year-old with nonverbal
autism.
Ben can't speak out loud, so he
communicates
by spelling out his thoughts,
letter by letter.
After seeing a lot of Donald
Trump on TV,
many of those thoughts are now
about the presidential
election.
SARA BREAUX: I saw T-R-U...
JUDY WOODRUFF: A minute later:
SARA BREAUX: I saw Trump on TV,
and it really
U-P-S-E-T -- and it really me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What was it that
he said, or
that he did?
What was it?
SARA BREAUX: H-E -- he --
S-A-I-D -- he said
-- he said things that were
disrespectful
to so M-A-N-Y -- to so many.
He said things that were so mean
and disrespectful
to so many.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ben is too young
to cast a
vote this year, but he's part of
a growing
demographic.
More than 35 million Americans
with disabilities
will be eligible to vote,
accounting for almost
one-sixth of the electorate.
All told, almost 63 million
voters either
have a disability or live with
someone who
does.
That's a quarter of all eligible
voters.
And those figures are only
projected to grow
as the population ages.
JENNIFER LASZLO MIZRAHI,
RespectAbility: In
the past, a third of people with
disabilities
have been Democrats, and a third
have been
Republicans, and a third have
been independents.
So, we're the ultimate swing
voter group.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jennifer Laszlo
Mizrahi runs
RespectAbility, a nonprofit that
promotes
disability rights and
employment.
She says voters with
disabilities aren't a
monolithic group, but there is
common ground
on one issue: inclusion.
JENNIFER LASZLO MIZRAHI: People
with disabilities
don't want anyone to look down
at us.
We want, really, these
opportunities to be
included fully.
And we want to be included in
school, we want
to be included in our faith
community, we
want to be included in
everything, including
in political campaigns.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Unlike in past
presidential
contests, disability is
something both campaigns
have addressed this cycle, even
if inadvertently.
Last fall, Trump drew outrage
from the disability
community and beyond when he
mocked a news
reporter with a congenital
condition.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
You got to see the guy.
Oh, I don't know what I said.
Oh, I don't remember.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hillary Clinton's
campaign
quickly seized on the moment,
with national
TV ads like this one.
WOMAN: Donald Trump doesn't see
people like
me.
He just sees disability.
I honestly feel bad for someone
with so much
hate in his heart.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton had
already addressed
people with disabilities in her
campaign platform,
calling for more job
opportunities and tax
credits for their caregivers.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
We have got to build an
inclusive economy
that welcomes people with
disabilities, values
their work, treats them with
respect.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Trump doesn't
address disability
issues in detail on his Web
site.
He discusses the issue mostly
through the
lens of military veterans and
PTSD.
DONALD TRUMP: A shocking 20
veterans are committing
suicide each and every day,
especially our
older veterans.
This is a national tragedy
that's not talked
about.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: That is why we
must increase
the number of mental health care
professionals
inside the VA, while ensuring
that veterans
can access private mental health
care as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Laszlo Mizrahi
says the Clinton
camp is aware of the contrast.
JENNIFER LASZLO MIZRAHI: It's
very clear that
the campaign understands that,
when it comes
to the sort of product
differentiation between
herself and Mr. Trump, that this
is an issue
that plays in her favor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Maybe so, but the
lack of a
full platform on disabilities
has not deterred
conservatives like Melissa
Ortiz, who took
part in early voting in
Washington, D.C.
She has spina bifida, and she
uses a service
dog, Annie Oakley, to alert her
when a seizure
is coming on.
Ortiz is an activist who was all
in for Texas
Senator Ted Cruz in the primary,
but now she
backs Trump.
MELISSA ORTIZ, Trump Supporter:
It wasn't
an easy decision to come to, but
I'm going
to do it, because it's -- I
believe in his
vision for our country, more
than I believe
in her vision for our country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Especially when
it comes to
disability policy.
MELISSA ORTIZ: I do think she
will create
more dependency under the guise
of creating
independence, because, again,
her idea is,
it takes a village to raise a
child and the
government needs to do for you.
And, thank you, I can do very
well for myself.
And most other people that I
know with disabilities
believe that they can do well
for themselves,
too.
They need -- they need a little
help.
They don't need to be taken care
of.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ortiz says her
vote for Trump
put policy above personality.
MELISSA ORTIZ: Do I like the way
that he talks
about women?
No.
Do I like some of the things
that he's said
about people with disabilities?
Absolutely not.
I don't vote with my lady parts,
and I don't
vote with my wheelchair.
I vote with this and I vote with
this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, back
at the Breaux
household, mom Sara says she
agrees with her
son.
When it comes to issues
affecting individuals
with disabilities, do you have a
clear sense
of which candidate is better on
those issues?
SARA BREAUX: I think Hillary
Clinton is.
And the biggest concern for all
of us is not
just today, which is a concern,
but the future.
What kind of programs are there
for when we're
not the support system?
And that is something that she
has addressed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Candidates aside,
after 18
straight months of campaigning,
Ben adds what
many of us have been thinking.
SARA BREAUX: Y-E-A-R -- year
with -- W-I-T-H
-- I-S -- year is too long to
have to deal
SARA BREAUX: Y-E-A-R -- year
with -- W-I-T-H
-- I-S -- year is too long to
have to deal
with this.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's focus
now on a different
election story, ballot
initiatives and measures
at the state and local level.
It's a big year for it.
There are more than 150 at the
state level
this year.
John Yang has the story.
JOHN YANG: Next Tuesday,
legalizing marijuana
for medical or recreational use
is on the
ballot in nine states.
And voters across the country
will also decide
other contentious issues,
including gun control,
health care and prescription
drug costs, the
death penalty and the minimum
wage.
We take a look at some of these
issues with
two people who are following
them very closely.
John Myers is the Sacramento
bureau chief
for The Los Angeles Times, and
Josh Altic
tracks ballot issues for
Ballotpedia, a nonpartisan
online political encyclopedia.
Josh, John, thank you both for
joining us.
John, let me start with you.
California, as usual, has a long
list of ballot
initiatives that voters have to
decide next
Tuesday.
And let's start with marijuana.
California voters approved
marijuana for medicinal
use in 1996, and rejected it for
recreational
use in 2010.
Why is it back?
And what's different this time?
JOHN MYERS, The Los Angeles
Times: Yes, I
mean, it's a good question.
Why is it back?
We're the largest state in the
country.
And I think there has been the
sense that
there is a sea change in the way
Californians
view this, I think, in some ways
mirrored
in other parts of the country as
well, and
certainly efforts in Colorado
and Washington
state have gotten a lot of
attention here
in California.
This measure, I will tell you,
is drafted
much differently than the
measure that failed
in 2010.
It's more detailed.
It has more details about taxes
that are imposed
at the state and local level on
marijuana.
And it's backed by a couple of
very big people.
The lieutenant governor of the
state, Gavin
Newsom, and Sean Parker, the
impresario behind
Napster and Facebook in Silicon
Valley, a
wealthy financier, have both
gotten behind
it.
It has a lot of institutional
support.
And the polling shows that it is
doing pretty
well.
How you get to legalization, I
think California
is watching these other state,
but at this
point, it looks voters are
probably going
to say yes.
JOHN YANG: And, Josh, what other
states is
this on the ballot in?
And this is -- we see oftentimes
ballot initiates
leading the way for federal law,
federal policy.
It's still illegal at the
federal level.
Could this be the tipping point
this year?
JOSH ALTIC, Ballotpedia: There
has been a
lot of discussion about whether
this is the
year that will really push
towards removal
of federal prohibition.
You have it -- so, 80 million
people live
in states this year where
marijuana laws could
be basically made more
accessible to every
person.
So, you have recreational
marijuana in Nevada,
Arizona.
Those are the big ones.
Maine, Massachusetts, and, of
course, California.
And while California stands kind
of above
the rest as a really significant
landmark
for the tipping point idea, the
fact that
you have five other states, more
than we have
ever seen on the ballot at the
same time,
considering the issue is an
indication that
this could be a really key year
for the policy.
JOHN YANG: Another big issue
nationally -- it's
on the state ballot in a couple
places -- health
care and drug prices.
John, talk to us about, tell us
about what
California voters are being
asked to decide
on prescription drug costs.
JOHN MYERS: You know, I think,
you know, what
most people should need to know
about the
ballot measure here in
California, it's Proposition
61 on the statewide ballot next
week.
It is, in a lot of ways, I would
argue, a
bit of a symbolic fight about
the cost of
prescription drugs.
It is simply a measure that says
that the
state government cannot pay a
price that is
higher than what the federal
government pays
the U.S. Department of Veterans
Affairs when
it is buying prescription drugs.
You know, the backers of it say
it will bring
some realistic -- bringing down,
perhaps,
the prices and some
transparency.
The opponents, which is really
the pharmaceutical
industry, says it's going to
raise the cost
of drug prices.
It could for veterans and it
could for others.
This is more than a $100 million
political
fight here in California.
The television ads, the
billboards -- I was
driving on the highway.
There was a yes-on-61 billboard
and then a
no-on-61 billboard within a mile
of each other.
It is a knock-down, drag-out
fight.
I suspect, again, it is seen as
a fight that
would be a proxy war for a
national discussion
on the cost of prescription
drugs.
JOHN YANG: And, Josh, in
Colorado, voters
are being asked to decide
another big issue
that is being talked about again
with the
rising Obamacare premiums, a
single-payer
system.
Tell us about that.
JOSH ALTIC: Yes.
So, ColoradoCare is on the
ballot here.
That's not nearly the nail-biter
that you
see in Prop 61.
You don't have the support money
that you
kind of see in California.
That one is not very likely to
pass.
All the polls kind of point
towards it failing.
But it's still unique and very
significant
because it's the first of its
kind to really
propose a statewide single-payer
health care
system like that through the
citizen initiative.
Who knows kind of what doors
that could unlock
for future initiatives.
This one didn't seem to get the
support from
key Democrats and didn't seem to
get the money
it needed to pass.
And you have the insurance
companies spending
enough to make it look like it's
not going
to pass.
But the fact that you have it on
the ballot,
it's significant.
It's a first-of-its-kind
measure, for sure.
JOHN YANG: Gun control, a
perennial issue,
John, in California, voting on
ammunition,
on magazine size.
JOHN MYERS: Yes, I mean,
California already
has pretty much more gun control
laws on the
books than any other state.
We're seen by that nationally.
This ballot measure, also backed
by the lieutenant
governor, Gavin Newsom, who
wants to be governor
in 2018 -- and I suspect that's
part of why
he's out there promoting these
-- but he also
says he cares about it.
Proposition 63 is the one you're
talking about.
It would require background
checks for buying
ammunition.
It would ban the sale of large
ammunition
clips.
It somewhat mirrors what the
state legislature
already did this year.
But it has become a very big
issue.
Certainly, a lot of gun violence
incidents
we have seen across the country,
I think,
have played into this campaign.
And, interestingly enough, you
have opposition
from the gun industry, from the
NRA as well,
but you do not see a large
opposition political
campaign this election season.
And, in some ways, maybe they
have read the
polling numbers that
Californians appear poised
to do this.
But there would be new and, I
think, interesting
policy choices about looking at
ammunition
and not just the weapons
themselves.
JOHN YANG: And, Josh, of course,
former New
York Mayor Michael Bloomberg
trying to make
a push nationally on this.
What other states are we seeing
gun control
issues on the ballot?
JOSH ALTIC: Yes, he's spending a
lot of money
this year in Nevada and Maine
and Washington
to sort of promote measures,
likewise, that
would increase the amount of
control the state
government has over guns.
And, interestingly, you don't
see the NRA
fighting back as hard as you
might expect.
In Maine and in Nevada, support
is outspending
opposition about 5-1.
And there's more money being
spent in Nevada.
But, really, this is kind of a
big national
fight between Bloomberg and the
NRA.
And so far, more money has been
put forward
in support of these measures,
which is a bit
of a surprise to some people.
They're doing pretty well in the
polls as
well.
You're looking at between six
and 10 points
in the most recent polls.
So, it's looking pretty good for
the passage
of those measures.
And that could be a reason why
you don't see
as much money being spent by the
NRA.
JOHN YANG: Josh and John, lots
of issues to
talk about, and lots of issues
that we will
be talking about next week and
for the days
to come.
Thanks for joining us.
JOHN MYERS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Online, it's been
589 days
since the presidential campaign
began.
And to get you through this last
week, Lisa
Desjardins has written an
election survival
guide.
You can find that at
PBS.org/"NewsHour."
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
protests over
the Dakota oil pipeline near a
boiling point;
and new insights into some the
ocean's smallest
creatures.
But first: It's been more than
three months
since a coup sought to depose
the Turkish
president.
The attempt failed quickly, but
the crackdown
in its aftermath continues,
alarming many
of Turkey's allies.
Readers have opened Turkey's
main opposition
newspaper to find blank columns
this week,
a protest against jailing its
editor in chief
and a dozen staffers.
Their arrests Monday were part
of an ongoing
purge against perceived
opponents by President
Recep Tayyip Erdogan since a
failed coup last
July.
On Tuesday, his prime minister
brushed off
European criticism.
BINALI YILDIRIM, Turkish Prime
Minister (through
translator): Today, somebody
from the European
Parliament says the detention of
journalists
from that newspaper is a red
line.
Brother, we don't care about
your red line.
It's the people who draw the red
line.
What importance does your line
have?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Across Turkey,
some 170
outlets have been shuttered
since July, leaving
2,500 journalists out of work.
The U.S. State Department has
raised its concerns
repeatedly, as it did again
Monday.
JOHN KIRBY, U.S. Assistant
Secretary of State:
Suppressing speech and opinion
and the press
doesn't support the fight
against terrorism
and only encroaches on the
fundamental freedoms
that help ensure democracies
remain strong.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But silencing
Turkey's media
is only one facet of a crackdown
on anyone
suspected of supporting
Fethullah Gulen, the
Islamic cleric whom Erdogan
accuses of fomenting
the coup attempt.
Gulen lives in exile in
Pennsylvania.
A staggering 100,000 civil
servants have been
fired, including 10,000 more
just last weekend,
and 37,000 people have been
arrested.
President Erdogan has even
voiced support
for reinstating the death
penalty, though
it would dash hopes for Turkey's
European
Union membership bid.
Meanwhile, as he consolidates
his internal
power, the Turkish leader is
waging war along
his borders.
This week, Turkish tanks massed
at Silopi,
near the Iraqi frontier, to
press the fight
against the Kurdish separatist
group known
as the PKK.
Southeastern Turkey is a largely
Kurdish region,
and the PKK maintains bases in
Northern Iraq.
In Ankara, the defense minister
said there
is -- quote -- "no obligation to
wait for
threats to rise."
FIKRI ISIK, Turkish Defense
Minister (through
translator): We have important
developments
in the region.
There is a serious struggle
against terrorism
inside Turkey and on the other
side of the
border.
Turkey is in the position of
making preparations
for all kinds of possibilities.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, in Syria,
Turkish forces
are looking to retake the city
of al-Bab north
of Aleppo from the Islamic
State.
Success would also bar the city
to the Kurds,
who hope to close a 45-mile gap
between their
enclaves and create a contiguous
Kurdish zone
along the Turkish frontier.
Turkey also insists that Syrian
Kurdish forces
not be part of any campaign to
retake the
Islamic State's self-proclaimed
capital of
Raqqa in Syria.
All of this has strained
relations with Washington.
The Obama administration regards
the Kurds
as among its staunchest allies
against ISIS.
We take a closer look at this
recent crackdown
with Amberin Zaman.
She is a Turkish journalist and
author and
serves as a fellow at the Wilson
Center, a
think tank in Washington.
So, 10,000 more civil servants
just in the
past week that have been fired.
Right after the coup, the
government said
this was to try and root out all
the Gulenists
at the time.
Why now?
Why is this happening?
AMBERIN ZAMAN, Wilson Center:
Well, as you
pointed out, the government has
justified
these moves on the grounds that
it's weeding
out the Gulenists, who they say
have penetrated
the entire government, the
judiciary, the
army, academia.
But, at this point, when you
look at the scale
of this purge, you have more
than 100,000
people now who have either lost
their jobs
or who are in jail, I think
around 30,000-plus
now in jail.
And you look at the number of
journalists
also in jail, the number of
media outlets,
over 100, well over 100 now
shuttered.
It's becoming very clear that
this is just
not about the Gulenists, but
more an effort
on the part of the government to
stifle all
dissenting voices.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, as these
journalists
and their publications are
affected, is there
even a vehicle for people to
express dissent?
AMBERIN ZAMAN: Very good
question.
One of the newspapers that was
just sort of
raided on Monday, Cumhuriyet,
was pretty much
the only opposition newspaper
that was still
around.
And now it's facing this court
case.
Fifteen journalists from the
newspaper, including
its managing editor, are now in
prison.
So, actually, there's
practically nothing
left, just a handful of online
media outlets
that still struggle to offer an
alternative
view.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, what's the
mood on the
street like?
How are Turkish people reacting
to this act
that they're witnessing over a
period of months
now?
AMBERIN ZAMAN: Well, when we
talk about this
massive crackdown and pressure
on the media,
et cetera, what often isn't
mentioned is the
fact that there are a
significant amount of
people who actually support the
government,
who support President Erdogan.
I just saw a recent opinion poll
that showed
that his popularity, if
anything, is rising,
that some 54 percent of the
people approve
of the way he's running the
country.
So, that needs to be, you know,
said.
So, the country is deeply
polarized between
those who, you know, almost
adore, let's say,
the president -- there's a cult
of personality
around him -- and then those
who, you know,
bitterly oppose him, but who
also happen to
be bitterly divided amongst
themselves, which
is why there's no really
effective opposition
against the government, against
the president.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, while he
might have
great support internally,
externally, forces
like the U.S. and the E.U. are
finding concerns
with some of these actions.
How does this affect his
standing in NATO
or the E.U., or potentially in
the E.U.?
AMBERIN ZAMAN: Well, at the
moment, people
in Brussels and this capital,
Washington,
are observing Turkey with
increasing alarm,
because Turkey seems to be
increasingly erratic,
unpredictable in its actions.
As you know, Turkey is talking
about intervening
militarily in Iraq.
It's already done so in Syria,
admittedly,
to fight the Islamic State, and
it has, indeed,
cleared its borders of the
Islamic State.
But, at the same time, in Syria,
it's attacking
the United States' most
effective ally in
the fight against the Islamic
State.
And I'm talking about the Syrian
Kurdish group
called the YPG.
So, that's complicating efforts
to sort of,
you know, destroy the Islamic
State in Syria.
And at a time when, you know,
there's now
this critical operation under
way in Mosul,
Turkey is now talking about
going into Iraq.
He's engaged, the president, in
a very public
spat with the Iraqi prime
minister, Haider
al-Abadi.
As you know, Turkey moved
several hundred
troops into Iraq last December,
saying that
they were there to train Sunni
militia, but
also to act as a deterrent
against Shia militias.
And this is making everything a
lot more complicated.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Amberin Zaman
from the Wilson Center, thanks
for joining
us.
AMBERIN ZAMAN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In North Dakota,
the standoff
over the controversial Dakota
Access pipeline
keeps growing, as riot police
cleared protesters
blocking the pipeline's
construction.
William Brangham has the latest.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In the past
week, at least
140 people were arrested while
occupying land
in the pipeline's path,
including one woman
charged with allegedly shooting
at police.
No one was injured.
Native Americans and
environmentalists say
the pipeline will destroy sacred
sites and
threaten the drinking water of
the Standing
Rock Sioux Tribe.
The 1,200-mile-long, nearly $4
billion pipeline
would carry 500,000 gallons of
crude oil daily
across four states.
Yesterday, President Obama
weighed in on the
fight in an interview with the
Web site Now
This News.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
There's an obligation for
protesters to be
peaceful.
And there's an obligation for
authorities
to show restraint.
And I want to make sure that, as
everybody
is exercising their
constitutional rights
to be heard, that both sides are
refraining
from situations that might
result in people
being hurt.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For more on
this, I'm joined
now by Seattle Times reporter
Lynda Mapes,
who's just back from North
Dakota.
Lynda, thank you so much for
being here.
Could you just tell us, what has
it been like?
You were just there recently.
What is it like?
What did you see?
LYNDA MAPES, The Seattle Times:
Well, it was
scary, honestly.
I was there with a Seattle Times
photographer,
Ellen Banner, and we truly were
wondering
minute to minute whether someone
was going
to get killed.
We were in camp the night before
with tribal
members who were singing their
death songs.
I mean, they were very worried
about the possibility
of violence.
And who wouldn't be?
You have seen law enforcement
marshaled from
six states, armored personnel
carriers, hundreds
and hundreds of law enforcement
officers with
concussion grenades, mace,
Tasers, batons.
And they used all of it.
I mean, it was frightening to
watch.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And when you
say that they
were using this, can you sort of
describe
the situation in which -- we
tend to see images
of riots or protests, and we
think of an equal
clash between both sides.
What kinds of things did you
witness?
LYNDA MAPES: Well, the
demonstrators are vastly
outnumbered.
There's no question about that.
And, in many cases, they were
literally sitting,
arms locked, praying when they
were arrested.
This changed as the standoff
went on.
It all started on Thursday
morning around
10:30.
It went on all through the day,
all through
the night, into the next day.
And, by the next day, Friday
morning, demonstrators
had burned two trucks on a
bridge and had
erected a makeshift plywood
barrier.
They had a pile of rocks.
Meanwhile, the law enforcement
officers had
advance more than 100 yards with
five armored
personnel carriers side by side,
hundreds
of law enforcement officers
advancing on them.
And it finally took an elder to
actually walk
by himself in between the two
lines, stand
there, face his people, and say:
"Go home.
We're here to fight the
pipeline, not these
people, and we can only win this
with prayer."
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: A lot of
people have been
making the comparison in recent
days with
what happened with the armed
white militiamen
who were just acquitted recently
of taking
over a federal wildlife refuge
in Oregon.
And they say white protesters
with weapons
are acquitted, while largely
peaceful Indians
protesting are not.
You were there when the jury --
that acquittal
came down.
What did you hear from people
there?
LYNDA MAPES: People were
stunned.
They were shocked.
They were hurt.
They were confused.
I heard a lot of, how can this
possibly be?
And the subtext being, of
course, "Well, of
course.
We're Indians."
People were very, very hurt by
the juxtaposition
of these two events.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As we heard
also, President
Obama just weighed in on this,
asking everybody
to cool down, and also
suggesting that maybe
the pipeline should be rerouted
away from
the Standing Rock Tribe and the
Missouri River,
where they get their drinking
water.
If that were to happen, if the
pipe was rerouted,
do you think that that would
settle things
down?
LYNDA MAPES: The chairman of the
Standing
Rock Sioux Tribe said days ago,
look, there's
a peaceful outcome to this that
could make
everyone happy.
Don't bring it right to our
reservation.
Don't put it within 10 miles of
our drinking
water intake.
Move it, and, meanwhile, put all
these out-of-work
people back to work retrofitting
the existing
pipelines underneath the
Missouri River.
He was very clear that they're
not against
energy and development.
What they're worried about is
pollution of
their drinking water source and
the drinking
water of millions of people
downstream, as
well as desecration of their
sacred sites.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do you have
any sense of
where this goes from here?
Obviously, President Obama has
weighed in
on this and made his point
known.
But we have an election coming
up.
We don't know -- just give me a
sense of,
what do you believe is going to
happen going
down the road?
LYNDA MAPES: Boy, I honestly
think anything
could happen.
It's a very scary situation.
The police and the demonstrators
are going
at it as you and I sit here.
The demonstrators this morning
were building
a little wooden bridge across a
creek to try
to get back to the treaty camp
to defend that
land from the pipeline.
I talked to a Yakama Nation
tribal member
who was coming in from Bismarck,
and he saw
two Apache helicopters on the
ground at the
airport and more and more police
coming from
all over.
I mean, the president has said
he wants this
to play out for a couple more
weeks.
I don't know.
I mean, I truly wonder what will
happen next.
Tensions are very high.
For the energy company, they
have said that
their contracts were inked in
2014, when oil
prices were still good.
They have since dropped, and if
they don't
get this thing built by the end
of the year,
those contracts expire.
And, in January, they would have
to take a
whole other look at whether this
thing even
pencils.
It could effectively cancel
their project,
which is why they're pushing so
hard to finish
this thing.
And the tribe and all of their
supporters,
tribal and non, are also pushing
back just
as hard, because, to them, it is
literally
a battle of life and death.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Lynda Mapes of
The Seattle Times, thank you so
much.
LYNDA MAPES: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now a new
effort to shed
light on a mystery that has long
baffled scientists
who study the world's oceans and
waterways.
Researchers are using some very
sophisticated
robots to understand what's
happening with
microscopic marine life.
Special correspondent Cat Wise
has the story,
part of our weekly series
covering the Leading
Edge of science and technology.
CAT WISE: At the Crab Cove
Visitors Center
in Alameda, California, the main
attraction
is, no surprise, crabs.
WOMAN: It's pointed, right?
So that means it's a...
CHILD: Male.
CAT WISE: On a recent afternoon,
a group of
children on a field trip at the
center headed
outside to the nearby beach with
naturalist
Morgan Dill for a talk on the
creatures of
the cove.
MORGAN DILL, Naturalist, East
Bay Regional
Park District: We have got
clams.
We have got oysters.
Would you like to see a crab's
baby picture?
This is the cute little baby
crab.
So, this is their larval stage,
and they go
through this stage and they're
out there,
but we don't actually know too
much about
them, but this is their baby
picture.
CAT WISE: Dill's lesson
highlighted a gap
in her and other scientists'
otherwise detailed
knowledge of the crab's life
cycle.
MORGAN DILL: Sometimes, when you
flip them
over, they have actually got
eggs on their
abdomen.
And they're holding them there,
and there's
hundreds of eggs.
And, so, often, the kids will
say, OK, so
where do they go from there?
We tell them they go back out
into the bay,
but we don't really know how
long they're
out there, when they're coming
back, and are
they at the whim of the current
or not?
CAT WISE: The answers to those
questions have
long been a mystery to those who
study the
oceans.
But it's not just the
whereabouts of baby
crabs that's perplexing.
More than 70 percent of all
marine organisms
start out life as tiny
microscopic larvae,
creatures like sea urchins,
anemones, lobsters,
shrimp, and a wide variety of
fish.
Many look like little aliens.
STEVEN MORGAN, University of
California, Davis:
We know so little about this
life stage because
it's so incredibly difficult to
study.
CAT WISE: Steven Morgan is a
professor marine
ecology at the University of
California at
Davis.
Morgan has spent most of his
career trying
to figure out what happens to
marine larvae
before they become adults and
are easier to
track.
STEVEN MORGAN: On land, we can
radio track
mountain lions by putting
collars on them
and their offspring, and so we
know exactly
what's happening to populations.
But in the sea, imagine trying
to follow this
microscopic larval stage for
weeks and months
in the plankton while it's
developing.
We can't do that.
CAT WISE: The conventional
wisdom in his field,
says Morgan, has been that the
larvae float
passively in the big turbulent
ocean, and
it's sheer luck if they are able
to stay near
shore or at certain depths that
they prefer.
STEVEN MORGAN: People tend to
think of them
as larvae being carried by
currents, much
like a dandelion seed on the
wind, and they
have little control over where
they're going.
CAT WISE: But Morgan never
bought into that
theory, and in recent years, he
and a small
number of other scientists
around the country
have done tests in labs that
show the larvae
can in fact control their
movements more than
previously thought.
It turns out that they are
pretty good at
swimming up and down in the
water column.
STEVEN MORGAN: Did you see a
difference in
the swimming patterns between
the species?
CAT WISE: But what do those up
and down movements
mean for them when they are in
the ocean?
Are they showing us they do have
some control
over their fate?
To figure that out, Morgan has
enlisted the
help of some cute, but very
sophisticated
robots.
For the past two years, Morgan
and his colleagues
have been deploying swarms of
these devices,
affectionately called larvae
bots, off the
coast of Northern California.
They are programmed to mimic the
larvaes'
up and down behaviors as the
float freely
in the water.
Their buoyancy is controlled by
an internal
bladder filled with oil.
And they are packed full of
instruments, sensors
and a GPS tracking system.
The goal of this research, which
is funded
by the National Science
Foundation, also a
"NewsHour" funder, is to find
out where the
larvae bots are going and how
they manage
to get there.
STEVEN MORGAN: This is a new
information that
hasn't -- hadn't really existed
up until now.
So, we're sort of cracking the
black box of
larval behavior.
CAT WISE: In fact, data coming
back from the
larvae bots shows that they stay
remarkably
close to shore when programmed
to go up and
down at certain times of day.
And that's what Morgan thinks
many of the
larvae are doing too.
They seem to know how to use
currents and
tides to go generally where they
want.
STEVEN MORGAN: The one way that
they can actually
have some control over where
they're going
and their destinies is actually
to move vertically
between currents that are
stratified, moving
in opposite directions.
So, if they can simply just
regulate their
amount of time in surface and
bottom currents,
then that will determine how far
offshore
and along shore they're actually
going.
CAT WISE: The concept of
larvae-mimicking
robots actually came about more
than 20 years
ago from two now retired
professors at North
Carolina State University, Tom
and Donna Wolcott.
Steven Morgan met them and at a
conference
, and a partnership ensued.
The robots are assembled back in
North Carolina,
and then shipped to the U.C.
Davis Marine
Lab in Bodega Bay, where
principal marine
electronics technician Grant
Susner gets them
ready to go to sea.
GRANT SUSNER, University of
California, Davis:
These robots are made by --
their external
housing is a fire extinguisher.
We repurposed and recycled some
old ones that
they had around.
CAT WISE: Fire extinguisher.
GRANT SUSNER: Yes.
CAT WISE: Wow.
And you may have noticed, they
aren't exactly
the same size as microscopic
larvae.
But Susner says it doesn't
actually make much
of a difference.
GRANT SUSNER: The key feature of
this robot
is that we have programmed it,
its behavior,
to mimic the speed at which the
larvae travel
as well.
So, this isn't going to travel
any faster
than larvae does.
CAT WISE: While the robots seem
to be revealing
clues about the larvaes'
behavior, the question
remains, why does it actually
matter if, in
fact, the larvae are better
navigators?
I posed that question to a man
who would really
like to know where they are
going.
BILL DOUROS, Regional Director,
NOAA National
Marine Sanctuaries: Knowing that
information
is a big deal.
There'd be a lot of benefits to
us from a
science standpoint, as well as
from a management
standpoint.
CAT WISE: Bill Douros is the
West Coast regional
director for NOAA's Office of
National Marine
Sanctuaries.
Douros says it's difficult to
manage and protect
diverse populations of marine
life without
knowing where the youngsters
are.
BILL DOUROS: The state of
California and federal
fishery managers have made
decisions about
where to place no-fishing areas
along the
coast of California.
Many of these are inside
national marine sanctuaries.
And the scientists that advise
on that make
their best educated advice.
But they don't know precisely
how big the
marine protected areas should
be.
If we knew better where the
larvae go after
they're released, we might
better design and
may shrink even some no-fishing
areas and
no-take areas that are set up to
protect abalone
and crabs and other parts of the
ecosystem.
CAT WISE: He also says that
larval movements
can impact much larger species.
BILL DOUROS: The larvae, which
are part of
this plankton food chain,
ultimately predict
where whales are going to be.
If we knew where the whales were
going to
be in the next three days, we
might reroute
ship traffic to separate whales
from ships,
so that they don't get struck by
ships.
CAT WISE: For his part, Steven
Morgan knows
that his research and
conclusions might still
be a tough sell for many of his
fellow marine
scientists.
STEVEN MORGAN: I'm hoping that
these robots,
where we're actually doing
experiments in
the ocean, will convince some of
the skeptics
and get more people, more
investigators in
marine science to think that
way, because
it's a hugely important
question.
CAT WISE: Back at Crab Cove,
naturalist Morgan
Dill and a group of curious kids
are hoping
they soon can get some answers
for their important
questions.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Cat
Wise in California.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Cat's report
is also part
of our Breakthroughs coverage of
invention
and innovation.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at
the "PBS NewsHour," thank you,
and good night.